feat: Add Terra SRPM and appstream page, remove Terra Policy page and move the contents into contributing, and new guidelines page. Also fix some stuff (#196)
FyraLabs/devdocs: pages/terra/srpm.mdx

---
title: SRPM Macros
description: "Documentation on the macros included in the anda-srpm-macros package."
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

> # SRPM Macros

Reviewer: make this page and filename lowercase?

%build
%{zig_build_target -r fast -c x86_64_v2} \
  -Demit-docs
```

Note that `-c` also works as a fallback option to the target architecture set by RPM if no following argument is supplied. However, this can **_only_** be used when RPM and Zig's architecture formats are the same, otherwise the build will fail.
For projects where dynamic linking of all dependencies is simply not possible (such as the version in the Fedora repos being too new or too old) or that have no dependencies to link, you can pass the `-s` flag. You can (and should) still dynamically link compatible dependencies by using `-fsys=pkgname`.

More information can be found on our [Zig packaging guidelines](../terra/policy#zig).

## Miscellaneous
General macros that do not fit into a specific category.

### %__anda_staticfiles
Expands to: `%_anda_srpm_macros_dir/find-staticinfo.sh %buildroot > anda-staticfiles.list`.
Creates anda-staticfiles.list file in `%{buildroot}` to be used by `%pkg_static_files`.

### %evr
used for declaring how a package interacts with others, for acampe, in a `Requires:` tag.
For example, `Requires: %{name} = %evr`
expands to `%{?epoch:%{epoch}:}%{version}-%{release}`.

### %git_clone

> Downloads the source code via `git clone`, and passes useful (in this situation) flags such as`--depth 1`, `-q`, `--recursive-submodules`, and `-j${RPM_BUILD_NCPUS}`.
> A git URL and a `%version` or `%commit` SHOULD be passed to this macro.
> Below is an example of how a spec that tracks version tages from a GitHub repo, and needs to git clone the source could handle this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the source code via `git clone` with appropriate flags.
The macro accepts 2 optional parameters: the URL to the repository (`%url` by default) and the tag/commit. For the latter, the macro detects for `%commit`, then fallback to `%version` and `v%version`.
```

Author: Why make this less content?

---
title: SRPM Macros
description: "Documentation on the macros included in the anda-srpm-macros package."
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# SRPM Macros

> We provide SPRM macros to ease packaging and better integrate into our workflow. Please use these macros when possible when contributing to Terra.

Reviewer 2: Indicate that they're custom and/or what does the S stand for if thats relevant idk

> We provide SPRM macros to ease packaging and better integrate into our workflow. Please use these macros when possible when contributing to Terra.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We provide SRPM macros to ease packaging and better integrate into our workflow. Please use these macros when possible when contributing to Terra.
```

Reviewer 2: This one is funny

These are provided in the `anda-srpm-macros` package. If you use them, make sure to add `anda-srpm-macros` as a `BuildRequires:{:rpmspec}` in the spec file.

You may need to refer to the [Terra packaging guidelines](./guidelines) for non-macro related Terra guidelines.
If looking for documentation on our metainfo macros, check that out [here](./appstream).

> If you would like to add/fix/update these macros, or MUST raise an issue, please do so in the [SRPM macros repository](https://github.com/terrapkg/srpm-macros), or reach out to us somewhere [here](https://wiki.ultramarine-linux.org/en/community/community/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you would like to contribute to SRPM macros, or MUST raise an issue, please do so in the [SRPM macros repository](https://github.com/terrapkg/srpm-macros), or reach out to us somewhere [here](https://wiki.ultramarine-linux.org/en/community/community/).
```

  [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174).
</Callout>

## Directories
These macros define certain system directories, and SHOULD be used in place of the raw directory path.

### %_appsdir
Expands to: `%_datadir/applications{:rpmspec}` or `/usr/share/applications{:rpmspec}`
This may seem like a directory to place the application itself into, but this directory is used for application's `.desktop` files.

### %elvish_completions_dir
Expands to: `%_datadir/elvish/lib/completions{:rpmspec}`
Used in the [`%pkg_completions{:rpmspec}`](#pkg_completion) macro, or manually when `%pkg_completions{:rpmspec}` cannot be used.

### %_hicolordir
Expands to: `%_iconsdir/hicolor{:rpmspec}` or `/usr/share/icons/hicolor{:rpmspec}`
The directory that SHOULD be used when installing application `.png` files. Note that you then MUST install the (typically app icon) file to the `apps` folder within the fixed-size directory in `%_hicolordir{:rpmspec}`.

For example:

```bash
# Lets say package 'foo' has a 16x16 and 64x64 .png
install -Dm644 icons/16x16.png %{buildroot}%{_hicolordir}/16x16/apps/%{name}.svg
install -Dm644 icons/64x64.png %{buildroot}%{_hicolordir}/64x64/apps/%{name}.svg
```

> If the file is a `.svg`, use the [`%_scalableiconsdir{:rpmspec}`](#_scalableiconsdir).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the file is an `.svg`, use the [`%_scalableiconsdir{:rpmspec}`](#_scalableiconsdir).
```
an vs a is based on phonetics not letters this is a funny case of that

### %_pkgconfigdir

> Expands to: `%{_libdir}/pkgconfig`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Expands to: `%{_libdir}/pkgconfig{:rpmspec}`
```

### %_scalableiconsdir
Expands to: `%_hicolordir/scalable/apps{:rpmspec}` or `/usr/share/icons/hicolor/scalable/apps{:rpmspec}`
The directory that SHOULD be used when installing application `.svg` files to.
You do not need to specify any folders for this macro, the file can be added to the end of this macro.
For example:

```bash
install -Dm644 icons/%{name}.svg %{buildroot}%{_scalableiconsdir}/%{name}.svg
```

> If the file is a `.png`, use the [`%_hicolordir{:rpmspec}`](#_hicolordir) detailed above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the file is a `.png`, use the [`%_hicolordir{:rpmspec}` macro](#_hicolordir) detailed above.
```

### %rpmbuilddir
This macro exists because Terra supports EL distributions (Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Alma Linux, etc.) which currently have an RPM version from before the `%{builddir}{:rpmspec}` change to address issues [like this](https://github.com/rpm-software-management/rpm/issues/3151).

One, albeit clunky, solution is to define `%{builddir}{:rpmspec}` manually as `%{_builddir}{:rpmspec}` in specs targeting distros with different versions of RPM where one has a version older than 4.20. We have this macro instead to make the process easier without overriding any builtin RPM macros. For more information on this solution, see [these](https://github.com/rpm-software-management/rpm/issues/3151#issuecomment-2154550735) [comments](https://github.com/rpm-software-management/rpm/issues/3151#issuecomment-2154639192) on the issue linked above.

> This macro is subject to being retired once all EL distributions with an RPM version older than 4.20 are end-of-life (likely when EL10 is end-of-life), or in the event we can no longer support EL distributions this old.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This macro is subject to deprecation once all EL distributions with an RPM version older than 4.20 are end-of-life (likely when EL10 is end-of-life), or in the event we can no longer support EL distributions this old.
```

Expands to: `%{?builddir}%{?!builddir:%{_builddir}}{:rpmspec}`

## Go
These macros assist with building Go projects.

### %goprep_online
MAY be used to prep a Go package for online builds. Replaces `%goprep{:rpmspec}` in `%prep{:rpmspec}`.

## JavaScript Runtimes
These are macros to assist with the general packaging of applications that use JavaScript runtimes, such as Node.js or Bun.

### Node.js Macros

> Macros for using [Node.js](https://nodejs.org). These require use of the [Fedora Node.js macros](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/packaging-guidelines/Node.js/#_macros) in the `nodejs-packaging` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Macros for using [Node.js](https://nodejs.org). These require the use of the [Fedora Node.js macros](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/packaging-guidelines/Node.js/#_macros) in the `nodejs-packaging` package.
```

> You MUST either set `%global npm_name pkgname{:rpmspec}` or use `%npm_prep -n pkgname{:rpmspec}` when packaging Node modules directly. This MUST be defined as the canonical name of the module as listed on the NPM Registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You MUST either set `%global npm_name pkgname{:rpmspec}` or use `%npm_prep -n pkgname{:rpmspec}` when packaging Node modules directly. This MUST be defined as the canonical name of the module as listed on the [NPM Registry](https://www.npmjs.com/).
```

#### %_nvm_dir

> The location in the `%{rpmbuilddir}{:rpmspec}` what will be passed to `$NVM_DIR{:rpmspec}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The location in the `%{rpmbuilddir}{:rpmspec}` what will be passed to `$NVM_DIR{:bash}`.
```

Expands to: `%{rpmbuilddir}/.nvm{:rpmspec}`

#### %__nvm
Calls NVM (Node Version Manager) while setting `$NVM_DIR{:bash}`. Only used if vendoring Node.js.

Expands to: `/usr/bin/env NVM_DIR=%{_nvm_dir} /usr/bin/nvm{:rpmspec}`

#### %vendor_nodejs

> this maco SHOULD only be used if Node.js packages available from the repos are not usable for some reason.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this macro SHOULD only be used if Node.js packages available from the repos are not usable for some reason.
```

  - This means that packaged Node modules will probably not meet their runtime requirements, but Electron apps may be fine.
- EL does not yet have the correct version of Node.js.
  - This poses the same concern as above.

For this reason, whatever you are packaging SHOULD be tested locally upon a successful build to see if it has any runtime issues.

What `%vendor_nodejs{:rpmspec}` does:
1. Installs the desired Node.js version to `%{_nvm_dir}{:rpmspec}`.
1. Redefines `%{__nodejs}{:rpmspec}` to run the vendored version through NVM.
1. Sets a `%bcond{:rpmspec}` to `vendored_nodejs{:rpmspec}` so other macros will use the vendored version.

Vendored versions of NPM and NPX are subject to limitations in commands as they must be run through `exec`.

### Node Module Macros
"Node modules" refer to JavaScript packages run using a JavaScript runtime (usually Node.js), almost always hosted on the [NPM Registry](https://www.npmjs.com/).

#### %npm_prep
Prepare a Node module for build steps.

Available flags:
- `-n{:rpmspec}` MUST be used to define `%{npm_name}{:rpmspec}` if it was not defined as a global macro.

#### %fetch_node_tests

> Fetch self-tests from a Git repo. MUST include all necessary test files and folders. If used, SHOULD be used in `%prep{:rpmspec}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fetch self-tests from a Git repo. MUST include all necessary test files and folders. If used, it SHOULD be placed in `%prep{:rpmspec}`.
```

Available flags:
- `-u{:rpmspec}` MUST be used to define the URL if the one listed in the `URL:{:rpmspec}` tag for the package is not detectable as clonable.

All necessary test files and folders MUST be listed after the macro. Test folders MUST start with `/{:rpmspec}`.

Example usage:
```rpmspec
%prep
%npm_prep
%fetch_node_tests -u https://github.com/dev/module.git /tests .eslintrc
```

#### %npm_install
Install a Node module to `%{npm_sitelib}{:rpmspec}` and symlink its executable.

#### %npm_test
Runs generic NPM tests. This will not be applicable to all Node modules. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.

Expands to: `%{__npm} test{:rpmspec}`

#### %node_self_test
Runs self-defined tests on the Node module. This is not applicable for all Node modules. Also, not all tests (that are supported as Node modules) can use a wide variety of testing tools. For use in `%check{:rpmspec}`.

Available flags:
- `-R{:rpmspec}`: Direct duplicate of an `-R{:rpmspec}` flag. Project dependent.
- `-v{:rpmspec}`: Direct duplicate of a `-v{:rpmspec}` flag. Project dependent.

You MUST use [`%fetch_node_tests{:rpmspec}`](#fetch_node_tests) first if using this.

> #### %__npm_license_checker

Reviewer 2: is this supposed to have 2 underscores?

Author: Yes.

Expands to: `/usr/bin/license-checker`
Runs the NPM [`license-checker`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/license-checker-rseidelsohn) command.

Example output:

```
/usr/bin/license-checker
└─ @fyralabs/devdocs@@0.0.1
   ├─ licenses: MIT
   ├─ repository: https://github.com/FyraLabs/devdocs
   ├─ publisher: Lleyton Gray
   ├─ email: lleyton@fyralabs.com
   ├─ path: /home/owen/Documents/Projects/devdocs
   └─ licenseFile: /home/owen/Documents/Projects/devdocs/LICENSE
```

#### %npm_license
Expands to: `/usr/bin/license-checker --limitAttributes licenses`

> Above macro, but limits the output to only the license.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is similar to [`%__npm_license_checker{:rpmspec}`](#__npm_license_checker), but limits the output to only the license.
```

see above comment about 1 or 2 underscores for this macro

Available flags:
- `-o{:rpmspec}` MAY be used as a shorthand for `--out{:rpmspec}`.

Example output:

> ```

Reviewer 2: does this need syntax highlighting maybe?

Author: Not really since it's just a command output.

/usr/bin/license-checker --limitAttributes licenses
└─ @fyralabs/devdocs@@0.0.1
   └─ licenses: MIT
```

SHOULD be used if packaging Node modules.

Example usage:

```rpmspec
%{npm_license} --out LICENSE.modules
```

OR:

```rpmspec
%npm_license -o LICENSE.modules
```

The above would create a `LICENSE.modules` file which can then be packaged using `%license LICENSE.modules{:rpmspec}`.

#### %npm_license_summary
Outputs a summary of the bundled licenses. Useful for determining what to put in the `License:{:rpmspec}` section for Node modules.

Expands to: `%{__npm_license_checker} --summary`

### Notes for JavaScript Package Managers:

> 1. The JavaScript package manager cache directories are placed in [`%{rpmbuilddir}{:rpmspec}`](#rpmbuilddir) because `$HOME` can be different depending on if a build is in Mock or RPM Build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The JavaScript package manager cache directories are placed in [`%{rpmbuilddir}{:rpmspec}`](#rpmbuilddir) because `$HOME{:bash}` can be different depending on if a build is in Mock or RPM Build.
```

#### %npm_audit_fix
Fix vulnerabilities found using `%npm_audit{:rpmspec}` Should be used in `%prep{:rpmspec}` section.

Installed packages with fixed dependencies SHOULD be tested first to make sure the applied fix did not cause any issues.

Available flags:
- `-d{:rpmspec}` will run with `--dry-run{:rpmspec}` so you can check what the fix would do.
- `-f{:rpmspec}` will run with `--force{:rpmspec}`, ignoring package locks or other requirements set by the module to fix the dependencies. This MUST be tested locally and verified to not cause breakage.
- `-o{:rpmspec}` will omit a dependency or group (such as `dev{:rpmspec}`) from being fixed.
- `-O{:rpmspec}` will only fix a specified depency or group.
- `-p{:rpmspec}` will limit the run to the package lock.

LIMITATION: Cannot be used on modules installed using the `-g{:rpmspec}` flag (which is done in `%npm_prep{:rpmspec}`) which use a package lock.

### Bun Macros
Macros for using [Bun](https://bun.com).

#### %__bun_home
Unfortunately, Bun doesn't actually have a way to enforce this yet.

> However the proposed environment variable is `$BUN_HOME`, so we have this for the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However the proposed environment variable is `$BUN_HOME{:bash}`, so we have this for the future.
```

Expands to: `%{rpmbuilddir}/.bun{:rpmspec}`

#### %_bun_cache_dir
Directory that Bun cache files are stored in.

Expands to: `%{_bun_home}/install/cache{:rpmspec}`

#### %bun_common_envvars

> Sets the `$BUN_HOME` for future use and sets the cache dir.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sets the `$BUN_HOME{:bash}` for future use and sets the cache dir.
```

Expands to: `%{npm_common_envvars} BUN_HOME=%{_bun_home} BUN_INSTALL_CACHE_DIR=%{_bun_cache_dir} BUN_RUNTIME_TRANSPILER_CACHE_PATH=%{_bun_cache_dir} FORCE_COLOR=1{:rpmspec}`

#### %__bun
Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{bun_common_envvars} /usr/bin/bun`

#### %__bunx
Run Node modules (downloading them if necessary) with Bun.

Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{bun_common_envvars} /usr/bin/bunx`

#### %bun_audit
Audit with Bun if package uses bundled Node dependencies. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.

> NOTE: Bun audit is a currently a wrapper for NPM audit but lacks the `fix` option, in order to fix vulnerabilities you need to use `%npm_audit_fix{:rpmspec}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** Bun audit is a currently a wrapper for NPM audit but lacks the `fix` option, in order to fix vulnerabilities you need to use `%npm_audit_fix{:rpmspec}`.
```

You SHOULD NOT need to fix vulnerabilities for Node modules that are __not bundled in the final package__. This means if a vulnerability is found *only* in build dependencies, you are fine to leave them be.

#### %bun_pm_trust

> Add Node modules to trusted dependencies so their postinstall scripts may be run. Should only be used if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add Node modules to trusted dependencies so their postinstall scripts can be run. SHOULD only be used if necessary.
```

Available flags:
- `-a{:rpmspec}` can be used to trust all dependencies, otherwise simply list the dependencies you want to trust after the command.

Expands to: `%{__bun} pm trust{:rpmspec}`

### PNPM Macros
Macros for using [PNPM](https://pnpm.io).

#### %_pnpm_home
Where PNPM files and cache are stored.

Expands to: `%{rpmbuilddir}/.pnpm{:rpmspec}`

#### %_pnpm_store
Where Node modules installed by PNPM usually go. This will usually not be produced when using PNPM as a build tool, but exists for rare builds it may be created in.

Expands to: `%{_pnpm_home}/store{:rpmspec}`

#### %pnpm_common_envvars

> Sets the NPM evironment variables and the PNPM home dir.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sets the NPM environment variables and the PNPM home directory.
```

Expands to: `%{npm_common_envvars} PNPM_HOME=%{_pnpm_home}{:rpmspec}`

#### %__pnpm

Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{pnpm_common_envvars} %{?with_vendored_pnpm:%{rpmbuilddir}/pnpm/pnpm}%{!?with_vendored_pnpm:/usr/bin/pnpm}{:rpmspec}`
SHOULD be used in place of calling `pnpm` itself.

#### %__pnpx
Remotely execute Node modules using PNPX.

Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{pnpm_common_envvars} /usr/bin/pnpx{:rpmspec}`

#### %vendor_pnpm
This SHOULD only be used if PNPM is not usable/available from the available repositories.

Available flags:
- `-v{:rpmspec}` MAY be used to define a desired version of PNPM.

Usecase examples:
- Fedora's currently packaged PNPM is too old for the build.
- You want to make the package build on EL (does not have PNPM).
  - In this case, you SHOULD wrap `%vendor_pnpm{:rpmspec}` in `%if{:rpmspec}` macros such as:
  - ```rpmspec
     %if %{defined rhel}
     %vendor_pnpm
     %endif
    ```

#### %pnpm_audit

> Audit with PNPM if package uses bundled Node dependencies. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Audit with PNPM if the package uses bundled Node dependencies. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.
```

You SHOULD NOT need to fix vulnerabilities for Node modules that are __not bundled in the final package__. This means if a vulnerability is found *only* in build dependencies, you are fine to leave them be.

#### %pnpm_audit_fix
Fix security issues in dependencies using PNPM.

Expands to: `NPM_CONFIG_AUDIT_LEVEL=low %{__pnpm} audit{:rpmspec}`

#### %pnpm_approve_builds
Approve dependency scripts with PNPM if needed.

Available flags:
- `-g{:rpmspec}` can be used to trust depdendencies of globally installed packages.

> Expands to `%{__pnpm} approve-builds{:rpmspec}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Expands to: `%{__pnpm} approve-builds{:rpmspec}`
```

### Yarn Macros
Macros for using [Yarn (Yarn Classic/Yarn v1)](https://classic.yarnpkg.com) and [Yarn Berry/Yarn Modern/Yarn v2+](https://yarnpkg.com).

You SHOULD use `yarnpkg` (Yarn Classic) unless you need `yarnpkg-berry` (Yarn Berry) specifically.

#### %_yarn_cache_dir

Expands to: `%{rpmbuilddir}/.yarn{:rpmspec}`

#### %yarn_common_envvars
Sets the NPM evironment variables and Yarn's cache folder.

Expands to: `%{npm_common_envvars} YARN_CACHE_FOLDER=%{_yarn_cache_dir}{:rpmspec}`

#### %__yarn
Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{yarn_common_envvars} /usr/bin/yarn{:rpmspec}`

#### %__yarn_dlx
Remotely execute a Node module with Yarn DLX.

> Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{yarn_common_envvars} /usr/bin/yarn dlx`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{yarn_common_envvars} /usr/bin/yarn dlx{:rpmspec}`
```

> NOTE: REQUIRES `yarnpkg-berry` instead of `yarnpkg` as a build dependency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** REQUIRES `yarnpkg-berry` instead of `yarnpkg` as a build dependency.
```

#### %yarn_audit

> Audit Yarn if package uses bundled Node dependencies. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Audit Yarn if the package uses bundled Node dependencies. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.
```

You SHOULD NOT need to fix vulnerabilities for Node modules that are __not bundled in the final package__. This means if a vulnerability is found *only* in build dependencies, you are fine to leave them be.

### Other

> JavaScript related macros that apply to all of, or do not fit into any of, the above categories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JavaScript related macros that apply to all or do not fit into any of the above categories.
```

Expands to:
```rpmspec
NPM_CONFIG_USERCONFIG="%{rpmbuilddir}/.npmrc" ; export NPM_CONFIG_USERCONFIG ; \
NPM_CONFIG_GLOBALCONFIG="%{rpmbuilddir}/npmrc" ; export NPM_CONFIG_GLOBALCONFIG ; \
NPM_CONFIG_CACHE="%{_npm_cache_dir}" ; export NPM_CONFIG_CACHE ; \
NPM_CONFIG_LOGLEVEL="error" ; export NPM_CONFIG_LOGLEVEL ; \
NPM_CONFIG_FUND="false" ; export NPM_CONFIG_FUND ; \
NPM_CONFIG_UPDATE_NOTIFIER="false" ; export NPM_CONFIG_UPDATE_NOTIFIER ; \
NO_UPDATE_NOTIFIER="1" ; export NO_UPDATE_NOTIFIER ; \
NPM_CONFIG_COLOR="always" ; export NPM_CONFIG_COLOR ; \
NPM_CONFIG_INIT_MODULE="%{rpmbuilddir}/.npm-init.js" ; export NPM_CONFIG_INIT_MODULE ; \
BUN_HOME="%{_bun_home}" ; export BUN_HOME ; \
BUN_INSTALL_CACHE_DIR="%{_bun_cache_dir}" ; export BUN_INSTALL_CACHE_DIR \
BUN_RUNTIME_TRANSPILER_CACHE_PATH="%{_bun_cache_dir}" ; export BUN_RUNTIME_TRANSPILER_CACHE_PATH ; \
PNPM_HOME="%{_pnpm_home}" ; export PNPM_HOME ; \
YARN_CACHE_FOLDER="%{_yarn_cache_dir}" ; export YARN_CACHE_FOLDER ; \
NPMFLAGS="${NPMFLAGS:-%{npm_buildflags} }" ; export NPMFLAGS
```

> This ensures the environment variables are explicitly exported and are more likely to be picked up by all shell processes. It also creates an environment variable called `$NPMFLAGS` which can be passed to NPM in lieu of the macro `%{npm_buildflags}{:rpmspec}` to force our config, if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ensures the environment variables are explicitly exported and therefor are more likely to be picked up by all shell processes. It also creates an environment variable called `$NPMFLAGS{:bash}` which can be passed to NPM in lieu of the macro `%{npm_buildflags}{:rpmspec}` to force our config, if necessary.
```

This should only be needed in the event you are using [`%__npx`](#__npx), [`%__pnpx`](#__pnpx), [`%__bunx`](#__bunx), or [`%__yarn_dlx`](#__yarn_dlx).

## Electron
These macros assist with the general packaging of applications that use [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org).

### %electronmeta
Set up all basic requirements including build macros for building an Electron app.

> Does NOT install the JavaScript package managers used for builds (e.g., `nodejs-npm`, `bun`, `pnpm`, `yarnpkg`, `yarnpkg-berry`). These must still be specified in the `BuildRequires:{:rpmspec}` tag manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** `This macro does NOT install the JavaScript package managers used for builds (e.g., `nodejs-npm`, `bun`, `pnpm`, `yarnpkg`, `yarnpkg-berry`). These must still be specified in the `BuildRequires:{:rpmspec}` tag manually.
```

    - These are defined because Electron names the build files and directories after the architecture.
    - The macros used to build Electron apps (`%npm_build{:rpmspec}`, `%bun_build{:rpmspec}`, `%pnpm_build{:rpmspec}`, and `%yarn_build{:rpmspec}`) all require this to be set.
    - In some cases, these architectures are used in the source tarballs for Electron projects.
    - This can also be used to help work with the files if you need to do anything manually.
- Defines `%__provides_excludes{:rpmspec}` to make sure Electron apps are not flagged as providers of their bundled dependencies, such as FFmpeg libraries.
- Defines `%__requires_excludes{:rpmspec}` based on architecture to prevent Electron projects' cross-platform builds from causing false dependency positives from RPM.
- Sets `%debug_package{:rpmspec}` to `%{nil}{:rpmspec}` to prevent stripping of bundled libraries and/or build failures due to not enough data to strip.
- Sets the build and runtime dependencies.
- Sets the `ExclusiveArch:{:rpmspec}` tag to only the architectures Electron supports.
- Defines a `%bcond{:rpmspec}` for whether or not Electron is bundled for other macros.

> - Defines the bundled dependencies as bundled. NOTE: This only defines Electron's bundled dependencies, not any Node modules the app may also bundle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Defines the bundled dependencies as bundled. **NOTE:** This only defines Electron's bundled dependencies, not any Node modules the app may also bundle.
```

- MAY be used under preambles but before `%prep{:rpmspec}` if not using `%{electron_license}{:rpmspec}`.

The safest location is under `Name:{:rpmspec}` and above other preambles. When in doubt, place the macro here.

Example usage:
```rpmspec
Name:    electron
%electronmeta
Version: 39.2.7
```

### %electron_arches
The architectures Electron supports. Automatically set as `ExclusiveArch` when using `%electronmeta{:rpmspec}`.

As written, the macro expands to:
- `%{x86_64} %{ix86} %{arm64} armv7l armv7hl armv7hnl %{mips64}{:rpmspec}`

Which expands fully to:
- `x86_64 x86_64_v2 x86_64_v3 x86_64_v4 amd64 em64t i386 i486 i586 i686 pentium3 pentium4 athlon geode aarch64 armv7l armv7hl armv7hnl mips64 mips64el mips64r6 mips64r6el`

Which simply means Electron supports [x86_64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64), [32-bit x86 (AKA: IA-32)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IA-32), [AArch64/ARM64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AArch64), [ARMv7 (AKA: `armhf`)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_architecture_family#Architecture_versions), and [MIPS64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIPS_architecture).

> However, at this time Terra only supports x86_64, AArch64, and 32-bit x86.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, at this time, Terra only supports x86_64, AArch64, and 32-bit x86.
```

Capital letter flags generally denote options that SHOULD be used with caution or only if necessary for a build.

For more information on each package manager, see [NPM Macros](#npm-macros), [Bun Macros](#bun-macros), [PNPM Macros](#pnpm-macros), and [Yarn Macros](#yarn-macros).

#### %npm_build
SHOULD be used for building Electron projects with NPM. Has a great deal of flags to work around NPM specific limitations.

Available flags:
- `-c{:rpmspec}`: Run `%{__npm} ci{:rpmspec}` instead of `%{__npm} install{:rpmspec}`. May be necessary for projects with stricter build dependencies.
- `-e{:rpmspec}`: Execute commands and modules within the NPM build environment. Some commands may need `--` in between the command itself and the following arguments.
- `-r{:rpmspec}`: Executes `%{__npm} run{:rpmspec}` for scripts in the `package.json`. Expects an argument.
- `-E{:rpmspec}`: Execute Electron Builder/Electron Forge. Will NOT work for projects that require build steps which use Node.js or executing JavaScript scripts directly.
- `-V{:rpmspec}`: Execute Electron Vite. Same limitation as with `-E{:rpmspec}`.

> - `-M{:rpmspec}`: Mode to use in Electron Vite builds. Accepts `production`, `development`, and `staging`. Note that this differs from `$NODE_ENV` so you can run any combination of Vite environment modes and Node.js environment modes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `-M{:rpmspec}`: Mode to use in Electron Vite builds. Accepts `production`, `development`, and `staging`. Note that this differs from `$NODE_ENV{:bash}` so you can run any combination of Vite environment modes and Node.js environment modes.
```

#### %bun_build

> SHOULD be used to build Electron projects with Bun.

Reviewer 2: Link Bun?

Available flags:
- `-c{:rpmspec}`: Run `%{__bun} ci{:rpmspec}` instead of `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}`. Analogous to `%{__bun} install --frozen-lockfile{:rpmspec}`. May be necessary for projects with stricter build dependencies.
- `-e{:rpmspec}`: Execute commands and modules within the Bun build environment.

> - `-r{:rpmspec}`: Executes `%{__bun} run{:rpmspec}` for scripts in the `package.json`. Expects an argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `-r <argument>{:rpmspec}`: Executes `%{__bun} run{:rpmspec}` for scripts in the `package.json`. Expects an argument in place of `<argument>`.
```

> - `-v{:rpmspec}`: Run Electron Vite build steps. Not needed for all Electron apps.

Reviewer 2: link electron vite? is it this link? https://electron-vite.org/

> - `-F{:rpmspec}`: Runs `--force{:rpmspec}` on `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}` step. It will make sure all dependencies are the latest versions from the registry, reinstalling them if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `-F{:rpmspec}`: Runs `--force{:rpmspec}` on the `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}` step. This will assure all dependencies are the latest versions from the registry, reinstalling them if necessary.
```

> - `-N{:rpmspec}`: Runs `--no-save{:rpmspec}` on `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}` step. Prevent updating or (re)creating a lockfile to prevent freezing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `-N{:rpmspec}`: Runs `--no-save{:rpmspec}` on the `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}` step. This prevents updating or (re)creating a lockfile to prevent freezing.
```

```
-B: bash (but the completion file doesn't have `.bash` extension)
-b: bash
-e: elvish
-f: fish
-z: zsh
```

For specifying the name (the default will be your `%name`) of the shell completion subpackages (if needed):
```
-n pkgname
```

Can also pass `cmd1`, etc. as the commands the completion files are for.

Example using all flags:
```
%pkg_completion -Bbefz -n pkgname cmd1 cmd2 ...
```

A good example spec that uses this macro is [yadm](https://github.com/terrapkg/packages/blob/d861164790b3d77f5ee094d303de2dfc3299ef8b/anda/devs/yadm/yadm.spec#L22).
This spec creates these packages:

```
yadm-x.x.x-x.fcxx.noarch.rpm - contains all core package files.
yadm-bash-completion-x.x.x-x.fcxx.noarch.rpm - contains `/usr/share/bash-completion/completions/yadm`
yadm-fish-completion-x.x.x-x.fcxx.noarch.rpm - contains `/usr/share/fish/vendor_completions.d/yadm.fish`
yadm-zsh-completion-x.x.x-x.fcxx.noarch.rpm - contains `/usr/share/zsh/site-functions/_yadm`
```

### %pkg_devel_files
Set the summary & description, then find development files and install them to a subpackages `%files`.
SHOULD be used in place of manually creating `-devel` subpackages.

> Note: You still need to define a `%package devel`, and then use this macro below this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package devel`, and then use this macro below this.
```

For example:

```rpmspec
%package devel
# generates Summary:, %description devel and the file lists
# -F to omit %files
# -n <pkgname>: name of the devel package
# -N <mainpkg>: name of the main package
%pkg_devel_files
```

### %pkg_static_files
Set the summary & description, then find static libraries.
SHOULD be used in place of manually creating `-static` subpackages.

> Note: You still need to define a `%package static`, and then use this macro below this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package static`, and then use this macro below this.
```

For example:

```rpmspec
%package static
# -n <pkgname>: name of the static package
# -N <mainpkg>: name of the main package
%pkg_static_files
```

### %pkg_libs_files
Set the summary & description, then find dynamic library files (will be placed as `%_libdir/*.so.*`).
SHOULD be used in place of manually creating `-libs` subpackages.

> Note: You still need to define a `%package libs`, and then use this macro below this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package libs`, and then use this macro below this.
```

## Go
These macros assist with building Go projects.

### %goprep_online
MAY be used to prep a Go package for online builds. Replaces `%goprep{:rpmspec}` in `%prep{:rpmspec}`.

## JavaScript Runtimes
These are macros to assist with the general packaging of applications that use JavaScript runtimes, such as Node.js or Bun.

### Node.js Macros
Macros for using [Node.js](https://nodejs.org). These require the use of [Fedora Node.js macros](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/packaging-guidelines/Node.js/#_macros) in the `nodejs-packaging` package.

You MUST either set `%global npm_name pkgname{:rpmspec}` or use `%npm_prep -n pkgname{:rpmspec}` when packaging Node modules directly. This MUST be defined as the canonical name of the module as listed on the [NPM Registry](https://www.npmjs.com/).

#### %_nvm_dir
The location in the `%{rpmbuilddir}{:rpmspec}` what will be passed to `$NVM_DIR{:bash}`.

Expands to: `%{rpmbuilddir}/.nvm{:rpmspec}`

#### %__nvm
Calls NVM (Node Version Manager) while setting `$NVM_DIR{:bash}`. Only used if vendoring Node.js.

Expands to: `/usr/bin/env NVM_DIR=%{_nvm_dir} /usr/bin/nvm{:rpmspec}`

#### %vendor_nodejs

> this macro SHOULD only be used if Node.js packages available from the repos are not usable for some reason.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This macro SHOULD only be used if Node.js packages available from the repos are not usable for some reason.
```

## Subpackages
These macros assist with packages that require certain subpackage types.
For example, some packages will build application and library files. Using `%pkg_devel_files` will greatly help you in making the library files (`-devel`) subpackage.
More information on subpackages can be found on the [Fedora Packaging Guidelines](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/packaging-guidelines/#_mixed_use_packages).

### %files_libs
This macro creates library subpackages and installs the library files.
This is only for use in the [`%pkg_devel_files`](#pkg_devel_files) macro.

### %pkg_completion
This macro creates shell completion subpackages and installs the shell completion files.
This macro SHOULD be used if your package provides shell completion files.
Use the below flags according to the shell completion files your package uses:

```
-B: bash (but the completion file doesn't have `.bash` extension)
-b: bash
-e: elvish
-f: fish
-z: zsh
```

For specifying the name (the default will be your `%name`) of the shell completion subpackages (if needed):
```
-n pkgname
```

Can also pass `cmd1`, etc. as the commands the completion files are for.

Example using all flags:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```rpmspec
```

%pkg_completion -Bbefz -n pkgname cmd1 cmd2 ...
```

A good example spec that uses this macro is [yadm](https://github.com/terrapkg/packages/blob/d861164790b3d77f5ee094d303de2dfc3299ef8b/anda/devs/yadm/yadm.spec#L22).
This spec creates these packages:

```
yadm-x.x.x-x.fcxx.noarch.rpm - contains all core package files.
yadm-bash-completion-x.x.x-x.fcxx.noarch.rpm - contains `/usr/share/bash-completion/completions/yadm`
yadm-fish-completion-x.x.x-x.fcxx.noarch.rpm - contains `/usr/share/fish/vendor_completions.d/yadm.fish`
yadm-zsh-completion-x.x.x-x.fcxx.noarch.rpm - contains `/usr/share/zsh/site-functions/_yadm`
```

### %pkg_devel_files
Set the summary & description, then find development files and install them to a subpackages `%files`.
SHOULD be used in place of manually creating `-devel` subpackages.

> **NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package devel`, and then use this macro below this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package devel{:rpmspec}`, and then use this macro below this.
```

For example:

```rpmspec
%package devel
# generates Summary:, %description devel and the file lists
# -F to omit %files
# -n <pkgname>: name of the devel package
# -N <mainpkg>: name of the main package
%pkg_devel_files
```

### %pkg_static_files
Set the summary & description, then find static libraries.
SHOULD be used in place of manually creating `-static` subpackages.

> **NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package static`, and then use this macro below this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package static{:rpmspec}`, and then use this macro below this.
```

For example:

```rpmspec
%package static
# -n <pkgname>: name of the static package
# -N <mainpkg>: name of the main package
%pkg_static_files
```

### %pkg_libs_files
Set the summary & description, then find dynamic library files (will be placed as `%_libdir/*.so.*`).
SHOULD be used in place of manually creating `-libs` subpackages.

> **NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package libs`, and then use this macro below this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** You still need to define a `%package libs{:rpmspec}`, and then use this macro below this.
```

Real package example:
```rpmspec
%install
%npm_install -s license-checker

# Bootstrap the license fetching
# Environment variable is one set during execution of %%npm_install
./bin/%{npm_name}$_js --limitAttributes licenses --out LICENSE.modules
```

#### %npm_test
Runs generic NPM tests. This will not be applicable to all Node modules. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.

Expands to: `%{__npm} test{:rpmspec}`

#### %node_self_test
Runs self-defined tests on the Node module. This is not applicable for all Node modules. Also, not all tests (that are supported as Node modules) can use a wide variety of testing tools. For use in `%check{:rpmspec}`.

Available flags:
- `-R{:rpmspec}`: Direct duplicate of an `-R{:rpmspec}` flag. Project dependent.
- `-v{:rpmspec}`: Direct duplicate of a `-v{:rpmspec}` flag. Project dependent.

You MUST use [`%fetch_node_tests{:rpmspec}` macro](#fetch_node_tests) first if using this.

#### %__npm_license_checker

> Expands to: `/usr/bin/license-checker`

Reviewer 3: Also formatting issue.
```suggestion
Expands to: `/usr/bin/license-checker`

```

Runs the NPM `license-checker` command, documented [here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/license-checker-rseidelsohn).

Example output:

```
/usr/bin/license-checker
└─ @fyralabs/devdocs@@0.0.1
   ├─ licenses: MIT
   ├─ repository: https://github.com/FyraLabs/devdocs
   ├─ publisher: Lleyton Gray
   ├─ email: lleyton@fyralabs.com
   ├─ path: /home/owen/Documents/Projects/devdocs
   └─ licenseFile: /home/owen/Documents/Projects/devdocs/LICENSE
```

#### %npm_license

> Expands to: `/usr/bin/license-checker --limitAttributes licenses`

Reviewer 3: Fomatting issue.
```suggestion
Expands to: `/usr/bin/license-checker --limitAttributes licenses`

```

- Sets color to `always` for more easily readable logs.

#### %npm_buildflags
Explicit NPM configuration flags of the environment variables set by the Macros.

Expands to: `--userconfig=%{rpmbuilddir}/.npmrc --globalconfig=%{rpmbuilddir}/npmrc --cache=%{rpmbuilddir}/.npm --loglevel=error --fund=false --update-notifier=false --color=always --init-module=%{rpmbuilddir}/.npm-init.js{:rpmspec}`

#### %__npm
Macro to call NPM with predetermined enviroment variables.

Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{npm_common_envvars} %{?with_vendored_nodejs:%{__nvm} exec npm --}%{!?with_vendored_nodejs:/usr/bin/npm}{:rpmspec}`

#### %__npx
Remotely run Node modules with NPX.

Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{npm_common_envvars} %{?with_vendored_nodejs:%{__nvm} exec npx --}%{!?with_vendored_nodejs:/usr/bin/npx}{:rpmspec}`

#### %npm_audit
Audit with NPM if package uses bundled Node dependencies. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.

Vulnerabilities for Node modules __not bundled in the final package__ SHOULD NOT be fixed. If a vulnerability is found *only* in build dependencies, you are fine to leave it as is.

#### %npm_audit_fix

> Fix vulnerabilities found using `%npm_audit{:rpmspec}` Should be used in `%prep{:rpmspec}` section.

Reviewer 3: Who deleted my period!! /lh
```suggestion
Fix vulnerabilities found using `%npm_audit{:rpmspec}`. Should be used in `%prep{:rpmspec}` section.
```

#### %__bunx
Run Node modules (downloading them if necessary) with Bun.

Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{bun_common_envvars} /usr/bin/bunx`

#### %bun_audit
Audit with Bun if package uses bundled Node dependencies. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.

<Callout>
  `bun audit` is currently just a wrapper for NPM audit but lacks the `fix` option; use `%npm_audit_fix{:rpmspec}` to fix vulnerabilities.
</Callout>

You SHOULD NOT need to fix vulnerabilities for Node modules that are __not bundled in the final package__. This means if a vulnerability is found *only* in build dependencies, you are fine to leave them be.

#### %bun_pm_trust
Add Node modules to trusted dependencies so their postinstall scripts can be run. SHOULD only be used if necessary.

Available flags:
- `-a{:rpmspec}` can be used to trust all dependencies, otherwise simply list the dependencies you want to trust after the command.

Expands to: `%{__bun} pm trust{:rpmspec}`

### PNPM Macros
Macros for using [PNPM](https://pnpm.io).

#### %pnpm_common_envvars
Sets the NPM environment variables and the PNPM home directory.

Expands to: `%{npm_common_envvars} PNPM_HOME=%{_pnpm_home}{:rpmspec}`

#### %__pnpm

> Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{pnpm_common_envvars} %{?with_vendored_pnpm:%{rpmbuilddir}/pnpm/pnpm}%{!?with_vendored_pnpm:/usr/bin/pnpm}{:rpmspec}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Expands to: `/usr/bin/env %{pnpm_common_envvars} %{?with_vendored_pnpm:%{_pnpm_home}/pnpm}%{!?with_vendored_pnpm:/usr/bin/pnpm}{:rpmspec}`
```

Available flags:
- `-v{:rpmspec}` MAY be used to define a desired version of PNPM.

Usecase examples:
- Fedora's currently packaged PNPM is too old for the build.
- You want to make the package build on EL (does not have PNPM).
  - In this case, you SHOULD wrap `%vendor_pnpm{:rpmspec}` in `%if{:rpmspec}` macros such as:
  - ```rpmspec
     %if %{defined rhel}
     %vendor_pnpm
     %endif
    ```

#### %pnpm_audit
Audit with PNPM if the package uses bundled Node dependencies. For use in the `%check{:rpmspec}` section.

You SHOULD NOT need to fix vulnerabilities for Node modules that are __not bundled in the final package__. This means if a vulnerability is found *only* in build dependencies, you are fine to leave them be.

#### %pnpm_audit_fix
Fix security issues in dependencies using PNPM.

Expands to: `NPM_CONFIG_AUDIT_LEVEL=low %{__pnpm} audit{:rpmspec}`

#### %pnpm_approve_builds
Approve dependency scripts with PNPM if needed.

Available flags:
- `-g{:rpmspec}` can be used to trust depdendencies of globally installed packages.

Expands to: `%{__pnpm} approve-builds{:rpmspec}`

### Yarn Macros

> Macros for using [Yarn (Yarn Classic/Yarn v1)](https://classic.yarnpkg.com) and [Yarn Berry/Yarn Modern/Yarn v2+](https://yarnpkg.com).

Reviewer 3: Consistency.
```suggestion
Macros for using [Yarn (Yarn Classic/Yarn v1)](https://classic.yarnpkg.com) and [Yarn Berry (Yarn Modern/Yarn v2+)](https://yarnpkg.com).
```

Example usage:
```rpmspec
Name:    electron
%electronmeta
Version: 39.2.7
```

### %electron_arches
The architectures Electron supports. Automatically set as `ExclusiveArch` when using `%electronmeta{:rpmspec}`.

As written, the macro expands to:
- `%{x86_64} %{ix86} %{arm64} armv7l armv7hl armv7hnl %{mips64}{:rpmspec}`

Which expands fully to:
- `x86_64 x86_64_v2 x86_64_v3 x86_64_v4 amd64 em64t i386 i486 i586 i686 pentium3 pentium4 athlon geode aarch64 armv7l armv7hl armv7hnl mips64 mips64el mips64r6 mips64r6el`

Which simply means Electron supports [x86_64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64), [32-bit x86 (AKA: IA-32)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IA-32), [AArch64/ARM64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AArch64), [ARMv7 (AKA: `armhf`)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_architecture_family#Architecture_versions), and [MIPS64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIPS_architecture).

However, at this time, Terra only supports x86_64, AArch64, and 32-bit x86.

### %electron_license
The license for bundled Electron.
NOT set by default in `%electronmeta{:rpmspec}` because you cannot set the license field twice.

> MAY be used in combination with manually adding the other relevant licenses (if this is done, a proper license tag would be `License: XXX-x.x AND %{electron_license}{:rpmspec}`.

Reviewer 3: Paranthesis were unclosed.
```suggestion
MAY be used in combination with manually adding the other relevant licenses (if this is done, a proper license tag would be `License: XXX-x.x AND %{electron_license}{:rpmspec}`).
```

### %nim_tflags
C compiler flags used in `%nim_c{:rpmspec}`.

### %nim_lflags
Linker flags used in `%nim_c{:rpmspec}`.

## Rust
These macros assist with building Rust projects.

### %cargo_prep_online
Enables internet access for `%cargo_prep{:rpmspec}`. Replaces `%cargo_prep{:rpmspec}` in `%prep{:rpmspec}`.

### %cargo_license_online
Enables internet access for `%cargo_license{:rpmspec}`.
Replaces `%cargo_license{:rpmspec}` in `%build{:rpmspec}`.

### %cargo_license_summary_online
Enables internet access for `%cargo_license_summary{:rpmspec}`.
Replaces `%cargo_license_summary{:rpmspec}` in `%build{:rpmspec}`.

### %cargo_vendor_manifest_online
Enables internet access for `%cargo_vendor_manifest_online{:rpmspec}`.
Replaces `%cargo_vendor_manifest{:rpmspec}` in `%build{:rpmspec}`.

### %crate_install_bin
Used to install crates that build as single binary.
Can be used instead of `%cargo_install{:rpmspec}` when [this](https://github.com/terrapkg/packages/issues/1169) is applicable.

### %rustup_nightly
Used in the `%prep{:rpmspec}` section for nightly `rustc`/`cargo` from `rustup`.

### %cargo_prep_online_sccache
Configures cargo sccache. Generally should not be needed.

## sccache

> These macros are fur using [sccache](https://github.com/mozilla/sccache).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These macros are for using [sccache](https://github.com/mozilla/sccache).
```

<Callout type="info">
  The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
  NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and
  "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
  [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119) and
  [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174).
</Callout>

## Directories
These macros define certain system directories, and SHOULD be used in place of the raw directory path.

### %_appsdir
Expands to: `%_datadir/applications{:rpmspec}` or `/usr/share/applications{:rpmspec}`
This may seem like a directory to place the application itself into, but this directory is used for application's `.desktop` files.

### %_bun_cache_dir
The directory where Bun cache files are stored in.

Expands to: `%{_bun_home}/install/cache{:rpmspec}`

Used for [Bun macros](#bun-macros).

### %_bun_home
The directory where Bun files are stored in.
Unfortunately, Bun doesn't actually have a way to enforce this yet.
However the proposed environment variable is `$BUN_HOME`, so we have this for the future.

Expands to: `%{rpmbuilddir}/.bun{:rpmspec}`

Used for [Bun macros](#bun-macros).

### %elvish_completions_dir

> Expands to: `%_datadir/elvish/lib/completions{:rpmspec}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Expands to: `%_datadir/elvish/lib/completions{:rpmspec}`

```

Used in the [`%pkg_completions{:rpmspec}` macro](#pkg_completion) macro, or manually when `%pkg_completions{:rpmspec}` cannot be used.

### %_hicolordir

> Expands to: `%_iconsdir/hicolor{:rpmspec}` or `/usr/share/icons/hicolor{:rpmspec}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Expands to: `%_iconsdir/hicolor{:rpmspec}` or `/usr/share/icons/hicolor{:rpmspec}`

```

The directory that SHOULD be used when installing application `.png` files. Note that you then MUST install the (typically app icon) file to the `apps` folder within the fixed-size directory in `%_hicolordir{:rpmspec}`.

For example:

```bash
# Lets say package 'foo' has a 16x16 and 64x64 .png
install -Dm644 icons/16x16.png %{buildroot}%{_hicolordir}/16x16/apps/%{name}.svg
install -Dm644 icons/64x64.png %{buildroot}%{_hicolordir}/64x64/apps/%{name}.svg
```

If the file is an `.svg`, use the [`%_scalableiconsdir{:rpmspec}`](#_scalableiconsdir).

### %_pkgconfigdir

> Expands to: `%{_libdir}/pkgconfig{:rpmspec}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Expands to: `%{_libdir}/pkgconfig{:rpmspec}`

```

Author: GitHub doesn't let me commit these space suggestions lol. Will do when I'm at my laptop again.

Reviewer 3: Oh that's cursed.

I suspect some of the formatting issues were also Zed because they'll happen randomly with your other commits.

Author: Oh true lmao

---
title: SRPM Macros
description: "Documentation on the macros included in the anda-srpm-macros package."
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# SRPM Macros

> We provide custom SRPM macros to ease packaging and better integrate our workflow. Please use these macros when possible in Terra.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We provide custom Source RPM (SRPM) macros to ease packaging and better integrate our workflow. Please use these macros when possible in Terra.
```

These are provided in the `anda-srpm-macros` package. If you use them, make sure to add `anda-srpm-macros` as a `BuildRequires:{:rpmspec}` in the spec file.

You may need to refer to the [Terra packaging guidelines](./guidelines) for non-macro related Terra guidelines.

> If looking for documentation on our metainfo macros, check that out [here](./appstream).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you're looking for documentation on our MetaInfo macros, check that out [here](./appstream).
```

- Defines `%__requires_excludes{:rpmspec}` based on architecture to prevent Electron projects' cross-platform builds from causing false dependency positives from RPM.
- If using the `-D` boolean, sets `%debug_package{:rpmspec}` to `%{nil}{:rpmspec}` to prevent stripping of bundled libraries and/or build failures due to not enough data to strip.
- Sets the build and runtime dependencies.
- Sets the `ExclusiveArch:{:rpmspec}` tag to only the architectures Electron supports.
- Defines a `%bcond{:rpmspec}` for whether or not Electron is bundled for other macros.
- Defines the bundled dependencies as bundled.
  <Callout type="warning">
    This only defines Electron's bundled dependencies, not any Node modules the app may also bundle.
  </Callout>

<div style={{ margin: "1em 0em 1em 0.5em" }}>
  | `%_target_cpu`                  | `%_electron_cpu` |
  |:-------------------------------:|:----------------:|
  | `%x86_64`[^1]                   | `x64`            |
  | `%arm64` (`aarch64`)            | `arm64`          |
  | `%ix86`[^2]                     | `ia32`           |
  | `armv7l`, `armv7hl`, `armv7hnl` | `armv7l`         |

>   | `%mips64`                       | `mips64el`       |

Reviewer 5: should be noted that terra only supports x86_64 and it's microarch levels and arm64, we should pawbably make it policy that the x86 microarch level for a package shouldn't be higher than actually required

Reviewer 3: We did mention what arches Terra supports. See L#208.

</div>

> This ensures packagers do not need to manually set these for every Electron app's spec, hopefully eliminating depsolver problems and helping reduce common build issues.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This ensures packagers don't need to manually set these for every Electron app's spec, hopefully eliminating depsolver problems and helping reduce common build issues.
```don't fear contractions!

| `%cargo_license_summary_online` | Replaces `%cargo_license_summary` in `%build`                          |
| `%cargo_vendor_manifest_online` | Replaces `%cargo_vendor_manifest` in `%build`                          |
| `%crate_install_bin`            | Used to install crates that build as single binary, applicable to specs generated with rust2rpm |
| `%rustup_nightly`               | Used in `%prep` for nightly `rustc`/`cargo` from `rustup`              |
| `%nim_prep`                     | Setting up `nimble`                                                    |
| `%nim_build` or `%nim_c`        | Builds a nim package. Requires an argument to `src/pkgname`            |
| `%nim_tflags`                   |                                                                        |
| `%nim_lflags`                   |                                                                        |

> | `%git_clone`                    | Downloads the source code via `git clone` with the `--depth=1`, `-q`, and `--recursive-submodules` flags. Should only be used when `%autosetup` can not be used. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `%git_clone`                    | Downloads the source code via `git clone` with the `--depth=1`, `-q`, and `--recursive-submodules` flags. Should only be used when `%autosetup` cannot be used.  |
```

| `%pkg_completion`               | Check [here](https://developer.fyralabs.com/terra/policy#shell-completions) for more details |
| `%pkg_devel_files`              |                                                                        |

> | `%pkg_static_files`             |                                                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `%pkg_devel_files`              | Set the summary & description, then find development `%files`.         |
| `%pkg_static_files`             | Set the summary & description, then find static libraries.             |
```

### %electronmeta
Set up all basic requirements including build macros for building an Electron app.

<Callout type="hint">
  This does NOT install the JavaScript package managers used for builds (e.g., `nodejs-npm`, `bun`, `pnpm`, `yarnpkg`, `yarnpkg-berry`).
  Specify these `BuildRequires:{:rpmspec}` manually.
</Callout>

Available flags:
- `-a{:rpmspec}` will pull in additional build dependencies often needed particularly when building with NPM.\
  Currently, this includes `nodejs-devel`, `nodejs-packaging`, and `typescript`.

<div style={{ float: "right", margin: "1em" }}>
  | `%{_target_cpu}` | `%{_electron_cpu}{:rpmspec}` |
  |------------------|------------------------------|
  | `x86_64`         | `x64`                        |
  | `aarch64`        | `arm64`                      |
  | `x86`            | `ia32`                       |
  | `armv7l`         | `armv7l`                     |
  | `mips64`         | `mips64el`                   |
</div>

> 

Reviewer 2: <img width="836" height="307" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d355df50-9f42-4f81-9a7f-9b4808b6ce4e" />

Formatting weird

<<<<<<< HEAD
- `-r{:rpmspec}`: Executes `%{__bun} run{:rpmspec}` for scripts in the `package.json`. Expects an argument.
- `-v{:rpmspec}`: Run [Electron Vite](https://electron-vite.org/) build steps. Not needed for all Electron apps.
- `-F{:rpmspec}`: Runs `--force{:rpmspec}` on `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}` step. It will make sure all dependencies are the latest versions from the registry, reinstalling them if necessary.
- `-N{:rpmspec}`: Runs `--no-save{:rpmspec}` on the `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}` step. This prevents updating or (re)creating a lockfile to prevent freezing.
=======
- `-r <argument>{:rpmspec}`: Executes `%{__bun} run{:rpmspec}` for scripts in the `package.json`. Expects an argument in place of `<argument>`.
- `-v{:rpmspec}`: Run Electron Vite build steps. Not needed for all Electron apps.
- `-F{:rpmspec}`: Runs `--force{:rpmspec}` on the `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}` step. This will assure all dependencies are the latest versions from the registry, reinstalling them if necessary.
- `-N{:rpmspec}`: Runs `--no-save{:rpmspec}` on `%{__bun} install{:rpmspec}` step. Prevent updating or (re)creating a lockfile to prevent freezing.

> >>>>>>> e71f8f7ed041580a9626c344506d417c9d35cf64

Reviewer: merge conflicts

Author: Thought I removed all that, still not building though...
